---
title: 5. 组合逻辑2：用数字逻辑电路实现[英]
category_bar: true
date: 2023/03/27
categories: 
- 学习笔记
- 数字系统和微处理器
---

# Combinational Logic 2: Implementation using Digital Circuit

## Logical transformation 
To deal with the lack/limit of circuit components, the transformation are introduced.  
In implementation of circuits, an implementation of 2-input NAND/NOR gate requires 2 transistors （晶体管）, however, a 2-input AND/OR gate requires 4 transistors. To save the cost, NAND logic and NOR logic are introduced to transform the 1st/2nd canonical form into a NAND/NOR only used circuit.  

### NAND logic and 1st canonical form
#### AND to NAND
$$F=A.B=\overline{\overline{A.B}}$$

#### OR to NAND
$$\overline{A.B}=\overline{A}+\overline{B}$$
$$A+B=\overline{\overline{A}+\overline{B}}$$
The AND and OR gates can be replaced with their NAND equivalents for the 1st canonical form giving.  

### NOR logic and 2st canonical form
The NOR can be obtained from the minimal 2nd canonical by replacing AND and OR gate.
#### AND to NOR
$$A.B=\overline{\overline{A}+\overline{B}}$$

#### OR to NOR
$$A+B=\overline{\overline{A}.\overline{B}}=\overline{\overline{A+B}}$$


## Don't care condition（无效项）
The binary input combinations may never occur although they exist.  
For example, in BCD(0-9) coding 1010(10) to 1111(15) are never used.  
  
Example: Seven Segment Display  
To represent numbers, corresponding segments will be lighten.  
i.e., $0 a b e g c f$     2->a c d e g    7->a c f   
To control segment a, we will design a system.    
When number=0,2,3,5,7,8,9 Fa=1  
In binary we need 4 bits to present the numbers 0-9, but 10-15 will be never used.  
All possibilities are listed using Kmap.  
